# VSS vspec lessons learned
A rough (probably incomplete) notepad of lessons learned using the VSS vspec rule set to define and process source data models. This is a use case that VSS was not designed for so it is natural if issues are found, i.e. this should not be seen as a critique of VSS itself.

- **Pollution of VSS standard catalog data types/units.** Defining the source data model in vspec leads to the need to specify native data types and unit data types that may not be in the standard catalog. Uncontrolled this could lead to a push to add these into the standard catalog and by extension vss-tools. In particular this could lead to a lot of "equivalent units" that represent the same information, e.g. kph and mph, which would require unnecessary conversions in working with the standard catalog. Instead it would make sense to strike the right balance between supporting tooling converting into VSS, e.g. in vss-tools, whilst seperating the data model requirements of the other data model.
  - One way of mitigating this would be an extension to the Android VHAL design pattern so that the data units for the source are held in a seperate file as an additional input to the processing. The yaml specifying the signal mapping could also specify the unit mapping. In addition this use case is another reason to implement a private unit data type file in the vss-tool tooling as requested in [issue 139](https://github.com/COVESA/vss-tools/issues/139)
- **Single root requirement.** VSS rule set assumes a tree with a single root and this is enforced in the vss-tools tooling. That is fine - VSS is not intended as a general purpose design language - but would exclude multi-root data models from the tooling. Although it could be argued that even in those cases either the general rules could be still used in a multi-root environment to help standardise yaml specification or each root be processed individually with the tooling as a 'domain'. The Renesas Simulator also has a single root so that was not a problem.
- **vss-tools convention checking.** The vss-tools core tooling, e.g. vss2json and vss2csv, recently gained a feature to do naming convention checking on vspec files. It can not be turned off and by default just warns on issues. A runtime option allows strict checking to be set where the tool stops on an issue. The default behaviour means that warnings are to be expected when processing a source data model in vspec format using the tooling.